A column of bones called
vertebrae make up your spine.
The spinal cord passes
through the center of the column.
The bones, or vertebrae,
that make up the spinal column
are not stacked directly
on top of each other.
There are spaces between them
that are maintained by round,
spongy pads of cartilage
called intervertebral disks.
Each intervertebral disk
is made up of two components,
the anulus fibrosus
and the nucleus pulposus.
The anulus fibrosus is the tough,
outer portion of the disk.
The nucleus pulposus
is the inner gel material
surrounded by the anulus fibrosus.
These disks and the space
between the bone that they fill,
give the back flexibility.
The disks act much like shock absorbers
throughout the spinal column
to cushion the bones as the body moves.